zfs_snapshot takes a snapshot only of the datasets that it is given.
This allows you to have maximum control of what specific datasets
you want to backup. It also labels the snapshots with an arbitrary
tag given by you. You can use it to give your snapshots more meaning
by passing a tag indicating a time "HOURLY", "DAILY", "MONTHLY", "YEARLY".

An example of backing up a few datasets in a pool:

# zfs_snapshot HOURLY tank/gentoo/root tank/gentoo/home ...

You can automate this by using a wrapper script that is called via cronjob.
You can use the 'tank_snapshot' wrapper script as a base for your datasets backups.
The 'tank' in 'tank_snapshot' is the name of my pool. I just named it this to make it
simply to identify which pool will be snapshotted.

----------

clean_snapshots - This script automatically cleans any dataset that is older than 30 days,
or older than the date passed to it (if given).

Example:

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs

Will find any snapshot older than 30 days (from today) for the tank pool, and then it will
show you the snapshots that it will delete, and ask for confirmation.

If you want to specify a date, you can use the '-d' flag.

Example:

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -d 2014-06-09-0000

Any snapshot older than June 9, 2014 00:00 will be removed. This allows for an easy way to delete all the snapshots
in one go. Let's say that today is June 9, 2014 00:00, and you want to delete your already existing 350 snapshots
(that were created with zfs_snapshot beforehand), you could just set the date to something in the future
(like next year):

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -d 2015-06-09-0000

Then since every snapshot is older than 2015, it will mark all of them for deletion.

If you want to run this in a cronjob and don't want it to ask for confirmation, you can use the "-f" flag:

Example:

clean_snapshots -f -p tank -t zfs (-d <date> if you want to)

You could also delete snapshots up to a specific date with a specific tag. Assuming you have snapshots
that all have the tag "HOURLY", you can do the following:

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -d 2015-08-08-1500 -l HOURLY

The cleaner will only remove snapshots if it is older than 30 days and also if you have more than 1000 snapshots
by default. This is to ensure that if you don't backup for a long time, that your "old" snapshots don't get nuked.

You can override the minimum amount of snapshots to keep by using the "-m" flag.
Example: Keep a minimum of 400 snapshots regardless of age

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -m 400

You can ignore the minimum amount of snapshots to keep by using the "-i" flag.
This is basically the old behavior:

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -i

If you have specific snapshots that you don't want to remove, you can add
each snapshot name (whatever you see in zfs list -t snapshot) on its own line
to a file. After that you can pass that file name to the cleaner with the "-e"
flag.

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -e excluded_snapshots

If you want to see what snapshots will be removed, you can use the "-s" flag,
and to see the snapshots that will be excluded, you can use the "-x" flag.
The snapshots displayed for the excluded list if any are for snapshots that
pertain to that specific pool.

clean_snapshots -p tank -t zfs -e excluded_snapshots -s -x

----------

zfs_backup - This script automates the process of performing full and incremental backups
between two pools. When doing an incremental backup, the script automatically finds a common
link between the source and backup pool, and uses that to perform the incremental backup.

Example:

zfs_backup -b backup -d tank/gentoo/root

Will retrieve all the snapshots in both the "backup" and "tank" pools and attempt to do either a full backup or incremental backup.
A full backup will only happen if the backup pool has no snapshots. If snapshots are found, it will only attempt to do an incremental backup.

You can use the "-f" flag to let the script know not to ask you about starting the backup (used for automation)

You can also update to a specific tagged snapshot. For example, if you wanted to update your backup pool up to the latest available
snapshot that has the "DAILY" tag, you would do the following:

zfs_backup -b backup -d tank/gentoo/root -l DAILY
